docs(domains&dns): using dig (#3185)
scaleway/docs-content: network/domains-and-dns/how-to/test-dns-zones-with-dig.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to test your DNS zones using dig
  description: This page explains how to test your DNS zones using dig
content:
  h1: How to test your DNS zones using dig
  paragraph: This page explains how to test your DNS zones using dig
tags: dns-zone dig records configuration
dates:
  validation: 2024-05-15
  posted: 2024-05-15
categories:
  - network
---

`Dig` or `domain information groper` is a command line tool used to query domain information on [DNS](/network/domains-and-dns/concepts/#dns) servers. You can use it to troubleshoot DNS issues.

> `Dig` is installed by default on most Unix operating systems. You will however need to [install it if you are using Windows](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/guides/run-the-dig-command/#installing-dig-on-windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Dig` is installed by default on most Unix operating systems. You will however need to [install it if you are using Windows](https://www.isc.org/download/).
```

Remove link to edge computing provider

  - Installed `dig`

### Performing a basic DNS query

Open a terminal and paste the following command to get a general overview of your domain's DNS configuration.

```
dig <your-domain.com>
```

This command could be useful if you want to verify the DNS configuration of a website before migrating it to a new server, for example. By running `dig` without any additional arguments, you can see if the domain's DNS records are resolving correctly and if you need to make any changes before the migration.

### Querying a specific record type

The following command allows you to retrieve your domain's [DNAME](/network/domains-and-dns/reference-content/understanding-dns-records/#dname-record) record. This command allows you to focus on particular aspects of your domain's DNS configuration.

```
dig <your-domain.com> DNAME
```

This command could also be useful if you are troubleshooting email delivery issues for a domain, for example. By querying the domain's MX record with `dig`, you can verify that the mail server listed is correct and accessible. If there is an issue with email delivery, checking your domain's MX record can help pinpoint potential misconfigurations.

> ### Performing a reverse DNS Lookup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Performing a reverse DNS lookup
```
